---
layout: post
title: Visualization and Gas model
cover: none.png
date: 2016-08-23 19:13:31 
categories: posts, stream, keras, data, machine learning, autonomous car
---

Starting from the [code](https://gist.github.com/robertsdionne/d37ab1524a7d5e373ee5a2a0176ebd22) sent to me last week about animations, I was able to display all the predictions my steering model was making.  With just a little bit of training (10 epochs on 10000 data points), it actually performed fairly well.  And it looks cool to boot.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/S3TbmSGLwVY" frameborder="0"> </iframe>

Building an acceleration model wasn't too bad; it's almost identical in structure to the steering model, except for a final layer difference.  Since we can only control the acceleration as much as `gas`,`brake`, and `reverse`, I decided to switch to a categorical model.  In truth, I should account for the ordering of these; that is, I care that `brake` is closer to `gas` than `reverse`.  If the model's going to be wrong, I'd prefer that it's only a little wrong.  In classical statistics, you can handle this with an [Ordered Probit Model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ordered_probit).  In layman's terms, you can think of this as doing linear regression, plus estimating the thresholds between classes.  It's statistically responsible.

Acknowledging that, I moved forward with a standard logistic regression on the bottom of my neural network.  This is partially because I chose the thresholds between classes myself, and arbitrarily at that.  But, the resulting model was almost always predicting "drive forward", likely because that's the overwhelmingly common (about 90% of all times) state.  That's the next obstacle.
